hello james and hello everybody else who
have already contributed and will
and thank you nika and james uh for
inviting me to take part in this
memorial
uh we are so honored that we have known
david that he has become a part of us
while we have all become a part of him
at the time of david's loss nico called
me from venice and i immediately went
there
however i'm
unable to be there today in madrid
physically
today is the first year that our
struggles continue without david's
physical presence
it is hard to believe a year has gone by
without him but i must say that he has
been with us every step of the way
his loss has certainly been untimely for
us all that we feel each day
our commemoration is by way of realizing
the desire for a free and equal world of
the thousands of people who fell in
struggle
including and especially david
if there was one thing about our friend
david that stood out it was his
insistence on seeing things differently
he was able to bring things together in
absolutely novel ways
and
he shed new light to phenomena that we
took for granted
his unmatched creativity led him to
extend over different disciplines and
time periods
and i guess this is where the kurdish
freedom movement and david
thought alike and came together
david was a revolutionary and visionary
without a doubt
be it in the context of occupy wall
street or the revolution in kurdistan
especially in rojava
whenever the oppressed were trying to
take things into their own hands
and build something new
david was there
to support these efforts whether through
theory or through direct action
and while doing this he took on the
world and if need be the whole left
this could be seen in his different way
of approaching the kurdish people more
than six years ago david said for the
rajava revolution no this is a genuine
revolution and he entered into indirect
dialogues with abdullah jalan
through his essay on the political
philosophy of hajjar
in his essay he said
academics
are not only expected to avoid
engagement with politics
one form this takes is the refusal
to believe that anyone who has taken any
sort of effective political action in
the world can also make important
contributions to human thought
at best they can be an object of
analysis they cannot be seen as engaging
as equals in the development of ideas
it is hardly surprising then that
contemporary intellectuals for the most
part have no idea what to do with the
ideas of abdullah
david was the kind of activist
revolutionary intellectual that our
world urgently needs
he not only had a kind heart
but a sound intellect
and he was still able to resist the
academic world uniformity
and to take on issues that may not have
been popular
raima and i began to know david since
2012 when he came to talk about debt in
germany
that had so much in common with erdogan
writings we just had to meet him and our
interaction became more profound as we
visited rojava together in the
conferences of challenging capitalist
modernity in hamburg
other seminars in the uk and our
discussions for museum of care
earlier in 2018 we were there where you
are right now in madrid together with
nasa and andre to talk about the
revolutionary ideas of the kurdish
freedom movement
there we also visited a museum that
exhibited the struggle against fascism
david was very proud of his father for
his solidarity and struggle against
fascism in spain david continued the
tradition he was part of and supported
radical movements
that changed our lives for the better
kurds arabs assyrians armenians and
other peoples in the regions have
demonstrated that the only way out of
the existence existing quagmire
is solidarity and the freedom of women
and of peoples
the freedom of one is the freedom of the
other they have dealt a heavy blow to
the dark ages and fascism that isis the
taliban al-qaeda and the turkish state
among others hoped to unleash in the
middle east in the process they have
shown the possibility of a path out of
the crisis
to another a brighter future based on
women's freedom and ecological economy
and a democratic society
inspiring and giving hope to millions
around the world
david had yet much to contribute at this
critical juncture of human history
as a brilliant because he was a
brilliant anthropologist
intellectual anarchist activist a friend
of the revolution in kyrgyzstan and an
important
person with unique capacities for
producing meaning
is missed by all of us
but i have to say david lives on in our
struggles in kurdistan and wherever
there is free human spirit
i thank you for this time and as i said
he will live on with us
thank you